Recording my experiences down there, you know.
And there's a tremendous change that's come over
the college. Of course, what I think is far
different than what most people think. I think it
should never have been changed from a military
school. I think that they infringed on the rights.
It was dedicated as a military, a land-grant
college, with the stipulation that military
training would be taught I think it should never
have been changed. I think it should have been
limited to a certain number of students. I think
the military standards should have been
improved, elevated, and kept strictly as a
military school. Now, that's my opinion. That's
not the opinion of others. I think it should never
become a coeducation. I think that's wrong. But
that's my opinion. Well, you're not alone in your
opinion. I don't know what percentage of the
people hold that opinion. Well, a lot of them maybe
wouldn't express their opinion about it, see. But
that's what I think about it. And I'm sorry to see
the school has grown too big. It's gotten entirely
too big. All colleges have, I guess. Well, a good
number of them have. I don't know if you know what
the enrollment is now or not. It was 18,500. Yeah.
last fall and expected to go to 21,000 this fall.
Well, of course, that's an enormous enrollment,
enormous college. The state's grown, the
country's grown, everything. But I hate to see a
college, a tradition, you know, and like that
change over so radically. But all it is now is just
another university. Yeah. Well, I've been told by
people who were there and were, I guess, involved
in the decisions to make it coeducational and
non-military was that there was some fear that it
would kind of die off if they didn't do something
because there were not enough boys who wanted to go
to an all-male military school for it to keep
going. Well. That may be true to a certain extent.
We're softer than we used to be. That is the people
are, the younger generation. You take the average
kid now. He wouldn't have gone down there and go
through A&M when I went through it. It'd been too
rough for him. He wouldn't have stayed there. Hell
no. Like a boy from my hometown, he went down there
with us. He stayed. two days he saw he wanted to see
and he went back home to mama decided no place for
him and they wasn't well he's better if he decided
that he's better off at home than those things but
the a and m has turned out a lot of good men oh yeah and
those things are what made these good men it's not
it's not air conditioning and luxurious
dormitories and uh big schools that make good men
it's It's training which makes a good man. There's
nothing better than a good, strong military
school for a boy. Now that's my opinion. That's the
same opinion my dad had. It might be like you say.
No, they blamed it on the football team. They said
that the reason they didn't have a football team
was that they had military training, just like you
said. Then they abandoned that. Then they blamed
the school. They said they didn't have any girls
down there. They had to get the girls down there so
the boys could come to school. So they got the girls
down there. So then the football team has been
going down every year since. So these athletes now
are so petted and pampered, not from college, but
from the cradle right on up. We've got these little
league teams and all that kind of stuff. And an
athlete, unless he's a pretty level-headed sort
of a fella, he can't help but be spoiled by the time
he gets to college. And when they get out of
college, well, then they either go pro or they
coach or something else, you know. But athletics
is not all there is to an institution. It's good for
an institution, but it's greatly overdone.
That's my opinion. Greatly overdone. And we used
to play for fun. Now then, they play for money.
Spirit, spirit. That's what we used to make A&M win
football games, the spirit. Talking about the
pampering of athletes and so forth, did the
athletes enjoy any particular privileges when
you were there? Well, we were, we were, that is, the
athletes were looked up on. They were, in a sense,
sort of idolized, but... They had privileges.
Yeah, we didn't have to, as I say, we didn't have to
attend maybe certain drills and we didn't have to
attend retreats and such as that. We were excused.
But outside from that, why there was no great
special privilege for them, no. Do you have a
training table? Yeah, a training table, yeah. You
mentioned that you played football. Yeah, I
played football. For how many years? I was down
there. I was on the team there for a couple of years.
21, 22. I finally made it in 22. We had... We played
then for the fun of it, for the spirit. See, there
was a lot of spirit, school spirit. I take it there
were no athletic scholarships when you were
there? No. We just played it. And if a fella come in
there, a poor boy, and he needed a little help,
somebody helped him. And then he was given a job
maybe in the dormitory, maybe... waiting on
tables or something like that or on student labor,
but that was taken care of too. We used to make 20
cents an hour on the student labor. The fellow
wasn't supposed to make over $20 a month. I mean the
student wasn't supposed to make over $20? He
couldn't make over $20 a month. That was the limit.
I take it you had a job some of the time that you were
there. No, I didn't. I wasn't on the student label.
You weren't on the student label before? No, I
wasn't on the student label. The tuition was cheap
then. I used to pay, I think it was $73.50 every
semester. That was room and board and tuition?
Room and board. We didn't have any tuition. No
tuition. Room and board, laundry, and... and you
had to have a little spending money. Well, it
didn't take much. $0.05 or $10 a month would be all
right for spending money. The dollar went a whole
hell of a lot farther than that. It didn't cost
much. I went through A&M for about $2,000.
Amazing. Not so much at A&M, but there are a lot of
schools where they spend that much in a year. Some
of them spend that much in half a year. Well, I think
there are some schools where the tuition costs you
that much. I
think we've mentioned one of the things that made
A&M different is the traditions that the students
carried on. Things such as Yale practice, silver
taps,
the annual muster, things of that nature, and the
bonfire. Did you have any of these things when you
were there as a student? I'm sure you had yell
practice from time to time. Oh yeah, yell practice
if the light was on in the room. They had Yale
practice after supper. If the light was on the room
in the dormitory, they went up there. Somebody
went up there and see why it was on. Why you wasn't
out at Yale practice. And if it hadn't been a
freshman, you got a paddle. You had to be at that
Yale practice. And you had to attend all the games.
Did you have to attend just the ones in Kiley
Station or did you have to go to all the outages? No,
we didn't do that. They run a special train every
year to Cotton Palace in Waco. We played at Baylor,
you know, Cotton Palace. Run a special train. The
whole Corps went down there and they put on a parade
in the morning. Did you go to Austin too when you
played there? Well, if we could afford it. But that
wasn't a special train then? No. You know, that
wasn't a special train. But I don't know who paid
for that special train. We used to meter away a lot
of times. A lot of kids would beat their way, you
know, they'd make a freshman buy a ticket. and then
the conductor he'd get he'd have to be on these
special planes the conductor just hated those
things you know they just give us much trouble and
we'd have a sticker a yellow ticket
well i just tell anybody i'd have a fish you know
Somebody would have a fish, and they'd say, well,
now, if you want to go to this Waco trip here, you buy
a ticket. And then he'd buy a ticket, and then he'd
get that yellow slip. So then he'd
work his way up to the front of the train with that
yellow slip, and he'd pass it to me or somebody
else, and I'd put it in my hat seat. So the
conductor, he'd come by, and he'd see that yellow
slip, and he'd just pass on by. So then when the
conductor got back so far, we have these, you know
how these trains connect? Yeah. They used to
connect. You could have a passway in there. Well,
underneath was some steps, you know, where you
stepped down. So we just opened those doors and put
the freshman under there, or somebody would, and
the conductor's never seen him. He'd just go on by.
So if the conductor, after he went through once,
that was enough. He'd had enough of that. So then we
used to put him on a seat and cover him up with a bunch
of overcoats. We'd cover the upperclassmen up
with a bunch of overcoats. So that's the way we made
the trip. And I went down there once, and I went
free, and then when they got to the Cotton Palace,
why, they gave us a dollar. And that was in trade,
see. That entitled us to buy, and we could take that
dollar, that coupon, and cash it in for a dollar on
the ground, see, when we got to the Cotton Palace.
So this is the way we used to, and we did this just for
fun. It really wasn't, it was a kind of a game with
us. So that's the way I got by, and then I got mixed up
in the crap game coming back on 90 cents out of here.
So I come out all
right. We know that from off and on there were a few
girls like faculty, professors' daughters and
things like that in school. Were there any of them
there when you were there? Yeah, there's a girl
named Jones. And you ever heard of Oscar Frazier? I
believe I have. Well, she married Oscar Frey. She
used to sit right next to me in chem class. And her
father was a chem prop there in organic chemistry.
And there was a rule then that they loosen it up a
little.
The professors, if they had a daughter and they
lived on the campus, this daughter, they could let
this daughter go to school if she wanted to. And all
this liberality started with World War I. When
these veterans returned, we used to have what we
called the casuals, casual company. They were
down in Milner Hall after it was vacated by the
military. And they were veterans of World War I.
Somebody got the idea that veterans shouldn't be
made to take military training again unless you
wanted to. Now there were some veterans in the
Corps too, a lot of veterans in there, but these
boys didn't want to take military training.
That's when things
really started back then with this casual
company. Then somebody got the idea that A&M
students should not be compelled to take military
training for their entire school life. Did they
ever start any? start this the system while you
were there whereby you could go to military
training two years and be a casual for two no even if
you hadn't been in the service that came in later
then that was way after i left there oh you you went
there you took four years of military training
unless you had been a uh all all freshmen were
privates uh sophomore where the corporals were
picked from the sophomore class The sergeants
were picked from the junior class. All juniors
were sergeants. They had war stripes. All seniors
were cadet officers. Before that, way back, they
had what they called senior privates. And they had
the old bellhop uniform. When I was there, every
senior was a commissioned officer. The second
lieutenant on it. So they had no more senior
privates when you were there? No more senior
privates. And every junior was a sergeant of some
kind. And the corporals then were picked from the
sophomore class. But not necessarily every
sophomore was a corporal. No, no, no. They didn't
have too many corporals.
Let's see. You graduated in the spring of 22. Did
you have a job? No, I was down there in the SATC. So we
started in, we had a few classes, and then the
classes were suspended. Then they sent me to the
hospital. I worked over in the hospital most of my
time down there the first semester. It was when
they had a lot of flu. That was when they had a lot of
flu. I worked over there in the hospital. I was an
orderly. They didn't have a medical corps then.
They just picked the details out of a company to go
to the hospital. I guess I did good over there. They
just kept me over there. Maybe forgot about me. I
don't know. So then after the thing was over, then
they started the next semester after the first
year and they gave the Those that were in the
freshman class had a chance to complete their work
in five months. So I got behind. I didn't complete
mine successfully. I got behind. I never was much
of a student. Like old Doc Salisbury told me one
day, he says, Mr. Lieber, you ought to be out behind
the plow. You haven't got any business in here. And
he is about right. So he wasn't far at all. So I
busted geology, too. That's another stiff one for
me. But it's like an old bracket. He was an English
professor, and he said he didn't know which was the
smartest. A man go through college and make all A's
and B's, or a man go through college and never crack
a book. So
that's the way the thing turned out. So I was in
the... I finished, left there in February of 1923.
I was there in the fall of 22. I was behind my class.
Four and a half years. Yeah, I didn't feel like
taking the 23 class because I didn't stay to finish
there. I didn't stay in the spring and so I just
took, I think it's three subjects. in
the fall of 22. I just had three subjects. Just
enough to get my degree. Okay. Did you have a job
lined up by the time you left school? No, things
were tight then. They had that panic.
So I thought I wanted to be a county agent. And I
couldn't connect anywhere. They said they had
more county agents than they needed running out
there. So I went to work then for a feed mill, just
check aboard feed. And they were recruiting. They
were after these fellas then, these college boys.
So they were recruiting. I didn't have any trouble
getting a job there with them. So I carried a grip
farm for about 10 years and I quit and went to
farming. And where all did you work for Purina? I
worked about four years in Mississippian and I
worked the rest of the year, about six years out
here. So in El Paso? That's what brought me to El
Paso. I've come out here from the Fort Worth now.
And so what, about 33 or 34, somewhere
thereabouts, you quit them and started the farm?
Yeah, I quit. Well, I had a case of the flu in 32, and I
had double pneumonia. Then a lung specialist told
me I had TB, and so I took the cure for about two
years, I guess. So after that, I at that time do a lot
of thinking, so I said, well, hell, I'm going to get
out here and farm. A lot of these, about half these
valleys, this valley here, this farm is made up of
lungards and chicken people and stuff like that.
There's a lot of veterans out here that have to be
beat. So what kind of farming did you do initially?
I started in cotton farming. How much acreage did
you farm? oh i found i finally i was broke and i
scratched around down here and i finally acquired
this property here and it was six acres in it and
then i uh made a little cotton crop and i had a little
money and i built the house here i made pretty good
wages building the house with myself and a bunch of
mexicans i had mexican craftsmen you know helping
me i did the carpenter work and so forth and then i uh
got the farming out here and i had kind of got my foot
in the door and then people there were then at that
time were anxious to rent land but all this thing
around here was cotton farms now stop there wasn't
There wasn't any houses around here at all. So they
offered me the rent and the land. I kind of got
started that way. I made a little money, finally. I
finally bought more land, just kept buying land,
bit by bit. Other
things happened. So I sold my land and paid off my
debts. up this place here. So then I lost some more
money in investments. You can't win all the time.
You roll a dice, you're going to crap out
sometimes. You can't win all the time. Nothing
good ever lasts. Oh, remember that. Nothing good
ever lasts. That's one thing you want to remember,
young man. Nothing good ever lasts. Something
will hit you. You got a good job today, and tomorrow
you don't have one. So be prepared. So you farmed,
what was the highest or greatest acreage you ever
had for farming? Oh, I was a small fry. I
was, oh,
I farmed about 100 and 150, maybe 125 acres. And
then I finally acquired 25 acres here in my own
right. I had a nice little farm here, 25 acres, and
then I rented land all around, you see. And just an
old sharecropper, you say, you might say. And then
ultimately you sold it all off with the four you
have now. That's right. Sold it all off to
subdivisions, those houses over there. Used to be
my land across the road. Yeah, got rid of it. I saw
the handwriting on the wall finally. I quit in 62.
Quit farming. Quit
farming in 62. And then did you move off the farm?
You moved off the farm for a while. Well, see, I used
to live on the North Loop over here. I had a nice home
over there, and I lived over there. Like all these
plot hoppers do, you know, I had to go to town, so I
had to go into town. Better neighborhood and
everything over there, you know. So I moved over
there, and my wife died. So then we settled the
estate, and I come up short, so I can back over
there.
I'm just getting by. I built these little houses
and I rent them. A lot of people think I'm rich, but
I'm not. It's all misleading. They've just got the
idea and can't get it out of their head, but I'm not.
That's why I shouldn't be, but I'm not. Well, I
suppose people that have a posted stamp yard look
at you and you've got four acres and they say, my, he
must be rich. Well, they come down here, you know,
and they look around and say, God, darn, I wish I had
this place. Nice places. I just like to have
something of this when I retire. See, I do all this
myself. I'm 75 years old, and I do all this myself
every day. I'm in good health, and that's what
keeps me in good health. Inactivity, cigarettes,
and rotten gut booze is killing the young people,
even the Mexicans. In 20 years, if they don't back
up and start over, there'll be a hospital on every
corner, and they won't be able to take care of them.
The heart attacks, the strokes, the cancers, all
that. That's right. I see now there's statistics
that you were reading yesterday that one in every
three families in the United States, they
predicted one in every three families in the
United States would be hit by cancer.
Astonishing. Yeah. And I guess the heart attacks
and things like that are getting more and more
frequent and younger and younger. Cigarettes,
inactivity, and booze, rock gut booze, this old
beer. These old Mexicans around here, some of
them, you just stick a needle in them, the beer just
spews. Big high school kids looked like they had a
rubber tube around their waist here, inner tube,
see? No condition whatever, little legs, table
legs, big bellies. Once in a while you see one young
Mexican, 23 or 24 years old, have a belly on him like
he's 45 or 50. Yeah. Go in the pipe, boy. That's
right. Just think about it. So what men having 35,
40 years old having heart attacks, 50 years old,
our artifacts. Not right. Don't make sense. What
do you produce mostly, or if anything, on your farm
now? Well, I just sowed the whole thing down in
Bermuda grass. And what I've got here, I take a few
horses, pasture. I've got these houses I rent.
I've got a few sheep. And a few fig trees. A few fig
trees. And I just sit down here and let the world go
by. And I get to hoeing someday and I think, well,
you old fool, what in the hell are you staying out
here for? You ought to be in town making a lot of
money. And then I get to thinking about how I'm
going to make that money. So I say, well, you old
fool, you better stay here a while. At least you got
your health. Good health is the world's greatest
blessing.
If you've got good health, you're rich. You're
rich. There's nothing in the world that can take
the place of good health. I know because I've had
mine and I've lost it, and I got it back by mean
strength and awkwardness. But, you know, there's
two boys in my football squad down there who died
with tuberculosis.
I think both of those boys could have been saved if
they'd have been, had the right attitude maybe and
they'd have got it in time.
Big fellas too. Old Spot Hanna, he could kick a
football, boy he could place a kick a football 40
yards. He was a guy who weighed 210 pounds. He
played a guard. He was really a place kicker. And
Dick Wilson, he was a tackle. He weighed about 200
and about the same as Old Spock. And big old raw
ball, West Texas boy. Engineer, got down here in
South America or Central America somewhere and
started running the temperature and they told him
he had tropical fever. When he finally got back
here in the States, he had one of his lungs gone.
That's the way it is. You never know. And health is
the greatest blessing. So take care of your
health.